word_pt;relType;word_en
abandonar;BEFORE;abandon
acabar;AFTER;end, finish
achar;AFTER;find, think
acreditar;AFTER;believe
acrescentar;AFTER;add
acusar;AFTER;accuse, charge
adotar;BEFORE;adopt
advertir;BEFORE;warn
afetar;AFTER;affect
afirmar;AFTER;state
agendar;BEFORE;schedule, set
ajudar;BEFORE;help, aid
alargar;BEFORE;extend, broaden
alegar;AFTER;claim
alertar;BEFORE;warn
ameaçar;BEFORE;threaten
antecipar;BEFORE;anticipate,foresee
anunciar;BEFORE;announce, report
anúncio;BEFORE;announcement
apelar;BEFORE;call
aplaudir;AFTER;applaud
aplauso;AFTER;applause
apresentar;AFTER;introduce, file
apressar;BEFORE;hurry
aprovação;BEFORE;approval
aprovar;BEFORE;approve
apurar;AFTER;determine
arriscar;BEFORE;risk
assegurar;BEFORE;ensure
assinalar;AFTER;signal
assinar;BEFORE;sign
assinatura;BEFORE;signing
assumir;BEFORE;assume
atacar;BEFORE;attack, strike
ataque;BEFORE;attack, strike
atrasar;BEFORE;stall, delay
autorizar;BEFORE;authorize
auxiliar;BEFORE;aid
avaliar;AFTER;evaluate
avançar;BEFORE;advance, push
avisar;BEFORE;warn, caution
aviso;BEFORE;warning
bloquear;BEFORE;block
boicotar;BEFORE;undermine
candidatar;BEFORE;run
capaz;BEFORE;able
citar;AFTER;quote
combater;BEFORE;fight
começar;BEFORE;start
compensar;AFTER;offset
completar;AFTER;complete
comprometer;BEFORE;pledge, undermine
conceber;BEFORE;design
concluir;AFTER;conclude
conclusão;AFTER;conclusion
concordar;BEFORE;agree
concurso;BEFORE;quiz
condenar;AFTER;condemn, convict
confessar;AFTER;confess
confirmar;AFTER;confirm
confrontar;AFTER;face
confronto;AFTER;confrontation
conhecer;AFTER;know
conquistar;BEFORE;conquer
conseguir;BEFORE;manage
consequência;AFTER;result
constituir;BEFORE;appoint
contactar;BEFORE;contact
contar;AFTER;tell
contestar;AFTER;challenge
contribuir;BEFORE;contribute
convencer;BEFORE;convince
conversação;AFTER;talk
conversar;AFTER;talk
convidar;BEFORE;invite
convocar;BEFORE;call
corrigir;AFTER;correct
criação;BEFORE;creation
criar;BEFORE;create
criticar;AFTER;criticize
de acordo com;AFTER;according to
decidir;BEFORE;decide
decisão;BEFORE;decision
declaração;BEFORE;declaration
declarar;BEFORE;declare
definir;BEFORE;define
deixar;BEFORE;let
denunciar;AFTER;report
desdenhar;AFTER;downplay
desencadear;BEFORE;trigger
desenhar;BEFORE;design
desenvolvimento;BEFORE;development
desintegrar;AFTER;disintegrate
desistir;AFTER;quit
desvalorização;AFTER;write-down
desvalorizar;AFTER;gloss
devolver;AFTER;return
dificuldade;BEFORE;difficulty
discurso;BEFORE;speech
discutir;BEFORE;discuss
disposto;BEFORE;willing
divulgar;BEFORE;release
dizer;AFTER;say
elaborar;BEFORE;elaborate
encerramento;AFTER;close
encerrar;AFTER;shut down
enfrentar;BEFORE;face
entender;AFTER;understand
esclarecer;AFTER;make clear
escolher;BEFORE;choose
esconder;AFTER;hide
esforçar;BEFORE;try hard
especificar;AFTER;specify
especular;BEFORE;speculate
espera;BEFORE;wait
esperar;BEFORE;wait, expect
estimar;BEFORE;estimate
estimativa;BEFORE;estimate
estimular;BEFORE;boost
exigir;BEFORE;demand
facilitar;BEFORE;ease
falhar;BEFORE;fail
fechar;AFTER;close
fecho;AFTER;close
ficar;BEFORE;stay
finalizar;AFTER;finalize
fixação;BEFORE;set
fixar;BEFORE;set
forçar;BEFORE;force
formar;BEFORE;form
fugir;BEFORE;flee
fundar;BEFORE;found
habituar;BEFORE;use
hipotecar;BEFORE;mortgage
impacto;BEFORE;impact
impedir;BEFORE;prevent
implicar;BEFORE;imply
impulsionar;BEFORE;boost
impulso;BEFORE;boost
indicar;BEFORE;indicate
informar;AFTER;inform, report
iniciar;BEFORE;begin
iniciativa;BEFORE;initiative
interessado;BEFORE;interested
inventar;BEFORE;invent
investigar;AFTER;investigate
lançar;BEFORE;release
levantar;BEFORE;rise
levar;BEFORE;take
listar;AFTER;list
manifestar;BEFORE;demonstrate
mencionar;AFTER;mention
mobilizar;BEFORE;rally, mobilize
mostrar;AFTER;show
mover;BEFORE;move
movimento;BEFORE;movement
mudança;AFTER;change, move
mudar;AFTER;change, move
negar;AFTER;deny, negate
negociar;BEFORE;negociate
nomear;BEFORE;appoint
notar;AFTER;notice
notícia;AFTER;news
observar;AFTER;observe, watch
obter;BEFORE;obtain
oferecer;BEFORE;offer
oferta;BEFORE;offer
olhar;AFTER;look
opor;BEFORE;oppose
ordenar;BEFORE;order
organizar;BEFORE;organize
orquestrar;BEFORE;orchestrate
ouvir;AFTER;listen
pagamento;AFTER;payment
pagar;AFTER;pay
pagável;AFTER;payable
parar;AFTER;stop
partir;BEFORE;break, leave
passar;BEFORE;pass
pedir;BEFORE;ask
pensar;AFTER;think
perda;AFTER;loss
perder;AFTER;lose
perguntar;BEFORE;ask
permitir;BEFORE;allow
planear;BEFORE;plan
plano;BEFORE;plan
posicionar;BEFORE;position
prejudicar;BEFORE;harm
preocupar;AFTER;worry
preparar;BEFORE;prepare
pressionar;BEFORE;urge
pretender;BEFORE;intend
prever;BEFORE;predict, foresee
procura;BEFORE;demand, search
procurar;BEFORE;search
programa;BEFORE;program
proibir;BEFORE;forbid
prolongar;AFTER;extend
prometer;BEFORE;promise
propor;BEFORE;propose
proposta;BEFORE;proposal
prorrogar;AFTER;extend
prosseguir;AFTER;continue
provar;AFTER;prove, taste
proveniente;AFTER;originating
provocar;BEFORE;cause, provoke
publicar;AFTER;publish
publicitar;BEFORE;advertise
queixa;AFTER;complaint
queixar;AFTER;complain
querer;BEFORE;want
questionar;AFTER;question
ratificar;AFTER;ratify
reacender;AFTER;rekindle
realização;BEFORE;holding
realizar;BEFORE;conduct
recalcular;AFTER;recalculate
recapitalização;AFTER;recapitalization
receber;AFTER;receive
recomprar;AFTER;buy back
reconhecer;AFTER;recognize, acknowledge
recuperar;AFTER;recover
recurso;BEFORE;appeal
recusar;BEFORE;refuse
reestruturação;AFTER;restructuring
referir;AFTER;mention, refer
refletir;AFTER;reflect
reforçar;BEFORE;strengthen
reformar;AFTER;reform
registar;AFTER;register
registo;AFTER;registration
regozijar;AFTER;cheer
regressar;AFTER;return
rejeitar;BEFORE;reject
relatar;AFTER;report
relato;AFTER;report
relatório;AFTER;report
renegociar;BEFORE;renegociate
repetir;AFTER;repeat
reportagem;AFTER;report
repudiar;BEFORE;disavow
responder;AFTER;answer
resposta;AFTER;answer
resultado;AFTER;result
resultar;AFTER;result
retirada;AFTER;withdraw
retirar;AFTER;withdraw
revelar;AFTER;reveal
rezar;BEFORE;pray
rumor;AFTER;rumor
saber;AFTER;know
saída;AFTER;exit
sair;AFTER;get out
salientar;AFTER;emphasize
salvar;BEFORE;save
saudar;AFTER;welcome, hail
seguir;AFTER;follow
segundo;AFTER;according
sentir;AFTER;feel
sinal;BEFORE;signal, sign, hint
sofrer;AFTER;suffer
subida;BEFORE;rise
subir;BEFORE;rise
sublinhar;AFTER;emphasize
submeter;BEFORE;file, submit
suceder;AFTER;succeed
sugerir;BEFORE;suggest
sujeitar;BEFORE;subject
surgir;AFTER;emerge
surpreender;BEFORE;surprise
suspender;AFTER;lift, suspend
telefonar;AFTER;call
telefonema;AFTER;call
tentar;BEFORE;try, seek, attempt
tentativa;BEFORE;attempt
terminar;AFTER;finish, expire, end, conclude, close, terminate
tirar;AFTER;draw, take
tomar;BEFORE;seize, take
tornar;BEFORE;become
transição;BEFORE;transition
trazer;BEFORE;bring
ultrapassar;AFTER;exceed
usar;AFTER;use
uso;AFTER;use
usufruir;AFTER;use
utilização;AFTER;usage
utilizar;AFTER;use
venda;BEFORE;sale, selling, sell-off
vender;BEFORE;sell
véspera;BEFORE;eve
visar;BEFORE;aim
voltar;BEFORE;come back, repeat
discursar;BEFORE;speech
dispor;BEFORE;willing
impactar;BEFORE;impact
interessar;BEFORE;interested
movimentar;BEFORE;movement
ofertar;BEFORE;offer
planar;BEFORE;plan
programar;BEFORE;program
proposto;BEFORE;proposal